[MUSIC PLAYING]
DYLAN HUNN: Hello,
Angular community.
My name is Dylan Hunn, and
I'm a software engineer
on the Angular framework team.
Over the last
eight months, we've
been working on
improving Angular forms.
And I'm incredibly excited to
share this new feature with you
today.
Typed forms are
part of Angular 14
and are ready today
for you to start
migrating your application.
Before we jump into the details,
let's get some background
on reactive forms.
This might already
be familiar to anyone
who builds or maintains
a forms application.
Reactive forms are one way
to build forms in Angular.
Compared with
template-driven forms,
they provide a more explicit
data model and state management
using RxJS and Observables.
They are not always
the right choice.
Template-driven forms are
less verbose and better
for some use cases.
These new types we're
going to see today
are only for reactive forms.
So that's where we'll focus.
Let's start with some background
on why we're making this change
and how it benefits
most applications that
use reactive forms.
Typed forms have long been the
most upvoted feature request
from the Angular community.
Additionally, this
change unlocks a number
of future improvements, such
as better control state change
events, stricter template
type checking, and much more.
When designing typed
forms, we tried
to follow some North stars.
In particular, we had
four guiding principles.
First, we want the
types to be powerful.
You should be able
to confidently
modify even the
most complex forms,
no matter how deeply nested
you have form groups or form
controls.
Second, we don't want to
completely replace forms.
We want to have one
unified ecosystem
that we move forward together.
Third, we want forms to
be as safe as possible, no
more surprising
anys in your types
when you access
values or controls.
And fourth, you should be
able to gradually migrate
at your own pace, even if you
have a lot of existing forms
code in your application.
Now let's consider an example.
In general, every
form corresponds
to a schema, or the shape of
the data you want to collect.
This is an example schema
representing a party.
It has inner objects--
in this case, the
address field--
and inner arrays-- in this
case, the menu for the party.
It's never necessary to
explicitly declare your schema,
but it's always useful to
think about when you're
working with a complex form.
By contrast, we do explicitly
declare the form model.
And this is the corresponding
form for hosting a party.
It accepts inputs for the
parties address, for the menu,
and for any other form
controls you might want.
Previously, interacting
with complicated forms
models like this one
could be hazardous.
For example, this code
contains a subtle bug.
The value of place is number
and calling a substring on it
will crash at runtime.
Now, with typed
forms, this bug will
be caught at compilation
time right in your editor.
These new types
permeate the API.
You'll benefit from them
when accessing form values,
getting deeply nested
controls, subscribing
to Observables, and so much
more at virtually any point you
interact with the
forms API surface.
This will give you
much improved safety,
preventing both simple
typos and more complex bugs.
The types also allow for
robust autocompletion right
in your editor.
In the party form example, when
accessing the form's value,
the IDE suggests every
known child of the form.
This helps you navigate
even the most complex
forms with confidence.
Although this is
a big change, it's
100% backwards compatible with
all of your existing forms
code.
When you update to
Angular 14, your forms
will be automatically
opted out of the new types.
Then, when you're
ready, you can turn them
on one control at a
time and incrementally
migrate at your own pace.
Now that you've got
the basics, let's
explore the types in action.
So a moment ago, we saw a
schema for building a party.
Now let's have a look at some
actual code corresponding
to the form for this party.
So let's jump into
the template and we'll
add a new button corresponding
to hosting a party.
And we will call the partyInSF
convenience function.
Now we'll jump into the
corresponding component
and we'll add the convenience
function for throwing a party.
We will access this.party
from the enclosing component.
This corresponds to the form
group for all the party's data.
And we will call setValue
on this form group
in order to give it a new value.
However, notice
that we've actually
forgotten the house number.
TypeScript will warn us that
we are missing a key here
because it expects
when we call a set
value, all of the keys in
the group to be present.
So let's go ahead and add it.
And notice that as I type, the
new TypeScript types also power
autocompletion.
However, I still
have an error here.
The type system doesn't just
check for missing properties.
It also just checks
for all of the names
and all of the
types in the object.
So here in particular, whereas
I currently have a number key,
I should have a house key.
Another option would have been
to use patch value instead.
This still protects us
against serious typing errors
but relaxes the constraint
that requires us to have
all of the keys present.
In particular, we can just
have the straight key.
Now let's consider another case.
Let's say that a neighbor
made a noise complaint
and we want to figure out
which neighbor it was.
So we can add a new method
on our component here
and we can use the get method.
The get method accepts a
string and will automatically
tokenize each field
in the string,
allowing us to access
inner controls.
And notice that the type
is correctly computed.
In this case, we actually
have an error again.
That's because we're
trying to do arithmetic
with a string key.
And this error
tells us we should
be using the house key,
instead which is numeric.
Now that you've observed
the new types up close,
let's dive into the
nitty-gritty design details.
So consider the form
group we saw a moment ago
for an address.
What should be the type
of address.controls
in this example?
And on the other
hand, what should
be the type of address.value?
When working with
typed forms, it's
important to know
about the difference
between the types of values
versus the types of controls.
As we saw earlier with
the party example,
the value is the
shape of your data.
Here, for instance, the
street field has type string.
On the other hand, you
can also access controls.
Here, the street field
is a form control, which
has a string inside of it.
Typed forms use
control types heavily.
Although you rarely need to
specify an explicit type,
if you do, you should
always use the control type.
Another interesting topic
is resetting controls.
Let's consider the simplest
possible form, just
a single control.
When we first
consider this control,
we see it contains a string.
So we might expect the type
to be form control of string.
However, there's
a tricky detail.
When you're working
with a form control,
you can call reset at any time.
And when that happens,
the control's value
will immediately reset to null.
This means that you cannot
always assume the value
of a control is a string.
In previous Angular versions,
this example would crash
at runtime because you cannot
call a substring on a null
value.
Angular 14 now protects you
from these kinds of errors,
because the type of the
dog control in this example
is string or null.
Sometimes, though, that's not
actually the behavior you want.
In fact, many existing
forms of applications
do not rely on the existing
nullability of the controls.
In Angular 14, form controls
have a brand new option
called nonNullable.
Instead of resetting
to null, the control
will reset to its initial value.
As you might expect,
this also removes
null from the controls type.
In this example, we've gotten
rid of the nulls entirely.
And now calling substring
is totally safe.
A related area involves
disabled controls and the effect
that they have on
a form's value.
With Angular forms,
disabled controls
are not included in
the form's value.
This is similar to how
native HTML forms behave when
their controls are disabled.
However, this has an impact
on the type of your form.
When you call dot value,
any key in the form group
might have been disabled.
As a result, the type knows
that each key is optional.
And when you use this
value, the type system
enforces you handle the
possibility that each key might
be undefined.
In this example,
when using cat.value,
all of the fields inside
the cat form group
are optional, because they
might have been disabled.
That, however, is
not the only case
in which we might have
optional keys in our form.
Sometimes you want to be
able to freely remove keys
from the form.
For example, here we call
removeControl on the name name.
With typed forms, we can
now explicitly specify
which keys are optional
versus which are required.
This allows the type system to
enforce that we safely handle
controls that might be missing.
For form groups that are
entirely dynamic, where
you want to add or
remove many controls,
we've also introduced
a brand new companion
type called FormRecord.
The typing improvements
here are wide and deep,
and there's so much more
to be excited about.
You can read about them in depth
in the new typed forms guide
available today on
angular.io and linked down
below in the description.
We are so excited
about Angular 14
and the future of typed forms.
We hope that you're
as excited as we
are, both for this project and
for the future of the forms
package as a whole.
Please like and subscribe,
and thank you for watching.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]